Blog post/ Automating maintenance of the Ember Guides FR (#2295)
mainmatter/mainmatter.com: src/posts/2024-01-10-ember-guides-fr-git-automation.md

quite different strategy, and we can probably make it simpler to picture!

`git apply` takes a path to a patch file. Instead of running
`git apply english.diff` and the whole command fails when something goes wrong,
it would be more convenient to try `git apply` block by block. What if we could
have one patch file per markdown file? This way we could run
`git apply file-1.diff`, `git apply file-2.diff`... and perform actions
depending on the result.

Thanks to `-- guides/release` option, we learned that `git diff` command can
scope the comparison to a given folder. We could also scope it to one single
markdown file! So we would run the command with
`-- [my-file-1].md > [my-file].diff` to output all the different patches. But
how to get the list of markdown files that have been modified in
`upstream/master`?

`git diff` can help us with another option called `--name-only`. Instead of
returning all the diff blocks as we saw earlier, it will return only the name of
the files containing changes!

To sum it up, here is the kind of implementation we want:

```js
// List of filenames that changed between origin/ref-upstream and upstream/master

> let files;

Author: I can change that, sure. Using global variables was just more readable to me in that case.

that if we are at the root of the `ember-fr-guides-source` folder and we use the
command `node scripts/catchup.mjs` from there, then `./` is exactly where we
are: the root of the `ember-fr-guides-source` folder. Here, the filename is
`./list.diff` because we generated it at the root of the repository.

The content of `list.diff` contains one line per file name: using a
[`split`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/split)
by line breakers then filtering potential empty values is enough to create our
array.

### b. Deleting files asynchronously

The variable `files` now contains an array of filenames. `list.diff` did its job
and we no longer need it. To remove `list.diff`, we can use `fs.unlink` or
`fs.unlinkSync`. Do we need the operation to be completed before moving to the
next step? No, even if `list.diff` is still there, we can move forward and start
using our `files` array. So let's go with the asynchronous version:

```js
fs.unlink("list.diff", function (err) {
  if (err) {
    console.warn("Failed to delete list.diff");
  } else {
    console.log("list.diff did its job, deleted");
  }

> });

Author: File deletion is not super relevant for the script anyway, so I can drop that part.

```

ℹ️ The asynchronous functions are essentially the same as the synchronous ones,
except that the last argument is a callback function that will be executed only
once the operation is done.

We have our `files` ready, which means we can finally enter the function
`applyPatches()` to generate the patch file `[index].diff` for each of them.

🤔 But don't you think it's a bit rough to create all our files at the root of
the project like this? Couldn't we create our patch files in a dedicated folder?

### c. Creating files into a new folder

To keep things clean, let’s not do what we did for `list.diff` and create a new

> folder in the scripts folder:

Author: Thanks for the link. The reason it was intuitive to me to use a classic folder is that I wanted to be able to use it at a later time. When I iterated on the script, I didn't design it to "do everything" or "do nothing". For instance, let's say I want to post 3 issues to GitHub and for some reason, GitHub API responds with an error for only 1 request. The 2 other issues now exist on GitHub and today, even if I figure out what went wrong, the easiest way for me to finish the sync is to manually open the missing issue. If I still have the patch file available on the catchup branch, I can do that very easily, which won't be the case if I clean up everything.

The way I built the script for real isn't necessarily the way I built it in the blog post, which is probably why some choices may look confusing at first glance. But also the script is very recent and I didn't have the opportunity to take a step back, so I am sure there are many improvements to make.

> folder in the scripts folder:

Reviewer: Yes, I see – I think some of that history and addtl. context leaks into the blog post now though making it more complex and harder than it needs to be… At the same time, like this it presents some patterns I'd actually say are not ones we'd recommend to anyone…

🤔 How do we make sure that all the operations on files are over before
continuing the execution of the script? It was great to let the script deal with
all the files as fast as possible without caring about the execution order. If
we replace `fs.readFile` and `fs.writeFile` with their `Sync` equivalent, we
would lose this advantage: our script would be slower because it wouldn't be
able to parallelize the operations.

What we want is to keep the same approach we have now, and do something when we
know all the files have been handled. To do so, we are going to use the method
`map` along with the object `Promise` and the static method `Promise.all`
provided by JavaScript.

Instead of calling directly all the `fs.readFile` instructions in a `forEach`
loop, we are going to store them in an array of `Promise` objects. Then we'll
call await `Promise.all(array)` to wait for all the async instructions. This
will pause the execution until all the promises are fulfilled, and only then
we'll leave the function:

```diff
  const applyPatches = () => {
-   let results = [];
-   files.forEach((filename, index) => {
+   let writePromises = files.map((filename, index) => {

> +     return new Promise((resolve) => {

Reviewer: I don't think you need to explicitly return a `Promise` here – you can just make the callback passed to `map` async?

Author: In the previous version with callback functions, the usage of `resolve` was simpler to control when the `Promise` was fulfilled. I rewrote everything with `fs/promises` (I wasn't aware there were two different APIs for the files) so I could drop `Promise`.

            const replacement = unversionPath(data);

            fs.writeFile(diffName, replacement, 'utf8', function(err) {
              if (err) {
                throw new error(`Failed to write ${diffName} to edit the patch path. This was caused by: ${err}`);
              }
              try {
                let isNew = !fs.existsSync(unversionedFileName);
                runShell(`git apply ${diffName}`);
                if (isNew) filesToPost.push({ filename: unversionedFileName });
-               results.push(0);
                fs.unlink(diffName, function(err) { ... });
+               resolve(0);
              } catch (error) {
                console.log(`"git apply" command failed for ${diffName}`);
                filesToPost.push({ filename: unversionedFileName, diffName });
-               results.push(2);
+               resolve(2);
              }
            }
          }
        } catch (error) {
          console.warn(error);
-         hasPendingDiff = true;
-         results.push(1);
+         resolve(1);
        }
+     });
    });
-   return results.some((status) => status === 0);
+   console.log('Ready to create the patch files');

> +   return Promise.all(writePromises).then((results) => {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+   let results = await Promise.all(writePromises);
```

I'd recommend avoiding `then`

A common practice in web projects is to store the secret variables in a file
`.env` which is added to the `.gitignore` file so we’re sure it won’t be
committed to GitHub inadvertently. Along with this file, an `.env.example`,
which contains fake values, is committed to GitHub and describes what secret
variables the developer should set up to get the project working. The library
[dotenv](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv) brings this common practice into
Node.js by providing the variables defined in `.env` through `process.env`:

```bash
% npm install dotenv --save-dev
```

```bash
// .env
GITHUB_TOKEN="<YOUR-TOKEN>"
```

❗ Make sure to add `.env` in the `.gitignore` file if it’s missing!

```js
import "dotenv/config";

const token = process.env.GITHUB_TOKEN;
console.log(token);
```

```bash
% node scripts/togithub.mjs --from=5.1 --to=5.4
> "<YOUR-TOKEN>"
```

Let's remove that `console.log`. Once the `token` variable is declared and
assigned, it can be used anywhere in the script, for instance in a function:

```js
/*
 * This function returns the headers required for all requests to GitHub API.
 * It includes both posting issues and opening the catch-up PR.
 */

> const getRequestHeaders = () => {

Author: Yes, for now, it relies on the variable `token` declared at the beginning of the script. It's a standalone script that reads `process.env`, it doesn't export any class or anything. Do you think that could be a problem?

> const getRequestHeaders = () => {

Reviewer: No, not a big deal but it's easy to fix by simply adding the argument and that would make it clearer as well I think.

    "Error: please provide the new Ember version documented on upstream to option --to (e.g. --to=5.4)"
  );
  process.exit(9); // 👈 this
}
```

ℹ️ `process.exit(9);` is used to force the process to exit if a critical error
prevents us from continuing. Any status but `0` indicates the process exited
with errors. `9` is for invalid arguments. You can see the
[list of error codes here](https://nodejs.org/api/process.html#exit-codes).

🤔 For now, it's ok, because all the operations are synchronous. But be aware
that if you start async operations in a script and `process.exit(n);` executes,
then you have no way to know for sure what operations the script could perform
before existing, and what operations were still to do. Let's imagine this kind
of algorithm:

```js
// async operation1 = create a file 'my-file.txt'
// wait for operation1
// async operation2 = write the text 'I love Ember' in 'my-file.txt'
// wait for operation2
process.exit(0);
```

If we implement the real code and run it, we don't know if the script could
finish both `operation1` and `operation2`. For instance, it may have done the
first one but not the second, and in the end, we have a file `my-file.txt` which

> is empty.

Author: I guess the snippet I wrote doesn't match what I wanted to express, it's supposed to be non-sequential 🙈 I'll change it to something more clear.

} catch (error) {
  // This is not executed
  console.error(error);
  process.exitCode = 1;
}
```

In our case, we'll keep `process.exit(9);` while the script reads arguments
because all the operations are synchronous. But for the rest of the script,
we'll use a global `try...catch` to catch the errors and set the `exitCode` to
`1`.

With the big parts cut, here is what our script looks like so far:

```js
import "dotenv/config";
import minimist from "minimist-lite";

// Read script arguments
const argv = minimist(process.argv.slice(2), { string: ["from", "to"] });

// Read current Ember version (under translation)
const currentEmberVersion = `${argv.from}`;
// if (currentEmberVersion.match...
console.log(`Ember version under translation: ${currentEmberVersion}`);

// Read new Ember version (documented by the English guides)
const newEmberVersion = `${argv.to}`;
// if (newEmberVersion.match...
console.log(`New Ember version documented on upstream: ${newEmberVersion}`);

// Read GitHub token
const token = process.env.GITHUB_TOKEN;

const getRequestHeaders = () => {
  /* ... */
};

try {
  // The next step 🎉
} catch {
  console.error(error);
  process.exitCode = 1;
}

> ```

Author: I had a hard time with this part because I wanted to keep the article organized and easy to follow by separating the different main themes: Node.js generalities, then git commands, then managing files... but the benefits of assigning `process.exitCode` rather than exiting the process in this script has not appeared yet at this point of the article.

If any of the arguments are invalid I exit right away, but later, if I already have async operations in progress, I generally don't want to kill the script at a random moment that prevents me from knowing exactly what it had time to do or not do. I can maybe just make this part more abstract and not try to show a real example linked to the script.

> ```

Author: I could simplify it and not go that deep into implementation details. I feel like I should mention somewhere that before calling `process.exit()` directly you should think carefully about the consequences, `process.exit()` _vs_ `process.exitCode =` is part of the basics to me. I'll see if I can condense the idea in the previous section maybe, I'll give it a try.

> ```

Reviewer: I still don't really get it tbh – I think the real problem is you don't want to start any non-awaited async operations?

---
title: "Automating the maintenance of the Ember Guides FR"
authorHandle: academierenards
tags: [ember, node, git]
bio: "Marine Dunstetter, Senior Software Engineer"
description:
  "Marine Dunstetter builds an automation script in Node.js to maintain the
  translation of the Ember Guides with git and GitHub."
og:
  image: ""
tagline: |
  <p>

>     One of the main blockers to translation projects is the overwhelming question: how to maintain it? The tool you're building is already something big, and the English docs for this tool are generally a complete website that you have to keep up to date as well. What's the best approach to setting up translations? the answer's probably unique to each project. But how to make maintenance a realistic task? the answer contains a tiny bit of genericity: automation saves time. What I built for the Ember Guides might give you some ideas. It's going to be about Node.js, git, and GitHub API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    One of the main blockers to translation projects is the overwhelming question: how do you maintain it? The tool you're building is already big, and the English docs for this tool are generally a complete website that you must keep up to date. What's the best approach to setting up translations? The answer's probably unique to each project. But how to make maintenance a realistic task? The answer contains a tiny bit of genericity: automation saves time. What I built for the Ember Guides might give you some ideas. It's going to be about Node.js, git, and GitHub API.
```

  </p>

image: ""
imageAlt: ""
---

When I am writing these lines,
[the Ember Guides](https://guides.emberjs.com/release/) are currently being
translated into French.
[The French website](https://ember-fr-guides.netlify.app) documents only the
latest version of Ember (for time and human resources purposes). It means that
when a new version of Ember is documented in English, we must adjust the French

> website accordingly. Let's say we must _"catch up"_ with English.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
website accordingly. Let's say we must _"catch up"_ with the English version.
```

At EmberFest 2023, I presented the approach used to build the French website,
and I described

> [the manual process to catch up with English](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hTc_vH-AQdk&t=282s)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[the manual process of catching up with English](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hTc_vH-AQdk&t=282s)
```

> when a new version of the docs is released. However, such a manual process is

Reviewer 2: Yeah, "such" indicates the process. There is no need to specify further. You are free to not use my suggestions when they are style-related tho (like this one) :)

`Bearer <YOUR-TOKEN>`.

`<YOUR-TOKEN>` should be replaced with a secret token required by GitHub API to
authenticate us and make sure we're allowed to use the API the way we try to use
it. To generate a personal token, log in to your GitHub account and
[follow this section of the docs](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/managing-your-personal-access-tokens#creating-a-personal-access-token-classic).
Once your token is generated, copy it somewhere, in a local file, so you have it
within easy reach.

🤔 `<YOUR-TOKEN>` is not supposed to change over time (at least not very often),
but it’s sensitive, so it can’t be hardcoded in the script. We could pass a
`token` as third argument:

```bash
% node scripts/togithub.mjs --from=5.1 --to=5.4 --token="<YOUR-TOKEN>"
```

It’s fine, but not good enough. We don’t want to copy manually the `token` from
somewhere to our command line each time we want to run the script. It would be
more convenient if the script could read the token by itself.

A common practice in web projects is to store the secret variables in a file
`.env` which is added to the `.gitignore` file so we’re sure it won’t be

> committed to GitHub inadvertently. Along with this file, an `.env_example` which

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
committed to GitHub inadvertently. Along with this file, an `.env_example`, which
```

Author: ```suggestion
committed to GitHub inadvertently. Along with this file, an `.env.example`, which
```

> contains fake values is committed to GitHub and describes what secret variables

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
contains fake values, is committed to GitHub and describes what secret variables
```

the developer should set up to get the project working. The library
[dotenv](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv) brings this common practice into
Node.js by providing the variables defined in `.env` through `process.env`:

```bash
% npm install dotenv --save-dev
```

```bash
// .env
GITHUB_TOKEN="<YOUR-TOKEN>"
```

❗ Make sure to add `.env` in the `.gitignore` file if it’s missing!

```js
import "dotenv/config";

const token = process.env.GITHUB_TOKEN;
console.log(token);
```

```bash
% node scripts/togithub.mjs --from=5.1 --to=5.4
> "<YOUR-TOKEN>"
```

> Let's remove that `console.log` now the check is done. Once the `token` variable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's remove that `console.log` and now the check is done. Once the `token` variable
```

Author: It's more like: we checked it works using `console.log`, so we can remove the `console.log` now. Maybe I can just remove the second part.

```suggestion
Let's remove that `console.log`. Once the `token` variable
```

Reviewer 2: I think it works with your second version :)

that if you start async operations in a script and `process.exit(n);` executes,
then you have no way to know for sure what operations the script could perform
before existing, and what operations were still to do. Let's imagine this kind
of algorithm:

```js
// async operation1 = create a file 'my-file.txt'
// wait for operation1
// async operation2 = write the text 'I love Ember' in 'my-file.txt'
// wait for operation2
process.exit(0);
```

If we implement the real code and run it, we don't know if the script could
finish both `operation1` and `operation2`. For instance, it may have done the
first one but not the second, and in the end, we have a file `my-file.txt` which
is empty.

It's usually good practice to have control over the process exit. On one hand,
you generally don't write things like `process.exit(0);` because the script will
exist with `0` code by itself when all the operations (including async
operations) are finished. On the other hand, and thanks to our modern node
version, we can "catch" errors with `try...catch` blocks and prevent the rest of
the code from being executed instead of forcing the exit.

> For instance, if we take one of our argument reading block, it would look like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For instance, if we take one of our argument reading blocks, it would look like:
```

console.log(`Ember version under translation: ${currentEmberVersion}`);

// Read new Ember version (documented by the English guides)
const newEmberVersion = `${argv.to}`;
// if (newEmberVersion.match...
console.log(`New Ember version documented on upstream: ${newEmberVersion}`);

// Read GitHub token
const token = process.env.GITHUB_TOKEN;

const getRequestHeaders = () => {
  /* ... */
};

try {
  // The next step 🎉
} catch {
  console.error(error);
  process.exitCode = 1;
}
```

So far, we learned how to:

- execute a modern `mjs` script
- install and import external libraries
- pass and parse script arguments
- read environment variables
- control the exit with `exitCode` and `try...catch`

The script knows all the arguments it needs to automate the process 🎉

### 2. Using git in a Node.js script

🐹🎥 _The talk in a nutshell:_ A new version of the Ember Guides was published
🔥 To see the changes, we compare `origin/ref-upstream` to `upstream/master` and
we print the result in a patch file `english.diff` that shows a list of diff
blocks. If non-translated files have changes, we apply the changes
automatically, which means these files are updated locally, which means we have

> to commit them in a working branch. Once it's done, we are officially

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to commit them in a working branch. Once that's done, we are officially
```

+ Line number 24 in file myFile.md on branch B
```

The `--` option allows us to specify a path for the compare operation. We are
not interested in all the changes in the whole app, we want to patch only the
markdown files located in `guides/release`.

Then we output the result of this command in one big file called `english.diff`,
which shows up at the root of the project. It contains one diff block per
modified markdown file. This is where the manual process becomes a bit heavy:

- We run `git apply english.diff` to automatically apply the changes A → B to
  all files. But git can do this only if each target file is in English and
  hasn’t been translated yet. If at least one markdown file has been translated
  into French, it means both sides have been modified and are now completely
  different, so git doesn’t know what to do: the whole command fails.
- For each block causing a failure, we open manually a new issue on GitHub, copy
  the diff in there (so a translator can tackle it later), and then remove the
  block from `english.diff`. Then we run `git apply english.diff` again, etc,
  etc...
- We do this until `git apply english.diff` finally works because there are only

>   non-translated English files targetted by the remaining diff blocks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  non-translated English files targeted by the remaining diff blocks.
```

 */
const applyPatches = () => {
  files.forEach((filename, index) => {
    try {
      let diffName = createDiff(filename, index);
      try {
        runShell(`git apply ${diffName}`);
      } catch (error) {
        console.log(`"git apply" command failed for ${diffName}`); // we prefer console.log over console.warn, because failure is part of the normal process
      }
    } catch (error) {
      console.warn(error);
    }
  });
}

try {
  // Create catchup branch and fetch last changes { ... }
  // Output the list of markdown files impacted by latest changes on upstream
  runShell('git diff --name-only origin/ref-upstream upstream/master -- guides/release > list.diff');

  // TODO: files = read the content of 'list.diff' and parse it as an array of filename.

  if (files && files.length > 0) {
    applyPatches();
  } else {
    console.log('No change between both versions of the Ember Guides.');
  }
} // catch(error) { ... }
```

That's a great start! There's just this blocking `TODO` we need to figure out,
we'll come back to it in the next section.

#### c. Managing new files

🤔 We saw quite interesting `git diff` options to create all the resources we

> need. There's one case though we didn't mention at all. What if some of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
need. There's one case though, we didn't mention at all. What if some of the
```

> "changed" files are new files that have been added to the latest Ember docs? so

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
"changed" files are new files that have been added to the latest Ember docs and
```

> they don't exist at all in our current branch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that don't exist at all in our current branch?
```

In that case, `git apply` will work like a charm and will create the new English
file for us, but then... we'll need to open a GitHub issue to alert the
translators there's something new to translate entirely. It means that the
answer to the question "Should I open a GitHub issue?" doesn't depend only on

> `git apply` success or failure, it also depends on the existence of the file in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`git apply`'s success or failure, it also depends on the existence of the file in
```

the current branch, and at some point, we should probably track the files that

> should be posted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
need to be posted.
```

To check if the file exists on the current branch, we'll import a module called

> `fs` and use the function called `existsSync`. We'll learn more about `fs`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`fs` and use the function called `existsSync`. We'll learn more about the `fs`
```

module in the next section of the blog post 😉

```diff
+ import fs from 'fs';

+ let filesToPost = [];

  const applyPatches = () => {
    files.forEach((filename, index) => {
      try {
        let diffName = createDiff(filename, index);
        try {
+         let isNew = !fs.existsSync(filename);
          runShell(`git apply ${diffName}`);
+         if (isNew) filesToPost.push(filename);
        } catch (error) {
          console.log(`"git apply" command failed for ${diffName}`); // we prefer console.log over console.error, because failure is part of the normal process
+         filesToPost.push(filename);
        }
      } catch (error) {
        console.warn(error);
      }
    });
  }
```

ℹ️ `git apply` runs after we've initialized `isNew`, because it can create the

> missing file and therefore false the value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
missing file and therefore compromise the value.
```

there's already a `scripts/patches` folder. It's up to you to decide if that
case is a problem or not.

We now have a good place for our files, so we can create them here:

```diff
  const createDiff = (filename, index) => {
-   const diffName = `${index}.diff`;
+   const diffName = `scripts/patches/${index}.diff`;
    try {
      runShell(`git diff origin/ref-upstream upstream/master -- ${filename} > ${diffName}`);
      return diffName;
    } // catch (error) { ... }
  }
```

The patch files are created in `scripts/patches` folder. Once the file is
written, `git apply` runs and... fails with the error "No such file or
directory". Time to take care of this `guides` versus `guides/release` thing.

#### d. Writing files

The content of a patch file looks like this:

```diff
diff --git a/guides/release/accessibility/components.md b/guides/accessibility/components.md
index 2253b1bdd..6e0e2a99d 100644
--- a/guides/release/accessibility/components.md
+++ b/guides/release/accessibility/components.md
@@ -57,13 +57,15 @@ However, the most common methods for providing accessible names can be reviewed

 ### Adding a label to an input element

> -Every `<input>` element should have an associated `<label>` element. To do this, the `<input>` element's `id` attribute value should be the same as the `for` attribute value on the `<label>`, like this:

Author: This one is part of a diff file so it's supposed to be here. The two lines prefixed with `-` and `+` are not exactly the same. I removed the first part to make them shorter and the diff easier to see, though the way the article shows is not perfect.

+               resolve(2);
              }
            }
          }
        } catch (error) {
          console.warn(error);
-         hasPendingDiff = true;
-         results.push(1);
+         resolve(1);
        }
+     });
    });
-   return results.some((status) => status === 0);
+   console.log('Ready to create the patch files');
+   return Promise.all(writePromises).then((results) => {
+     const hasErrors = results.some((status) => status === 1);
+     if (hasErrors) {
+       hasPendingDiff = true;
+       console.warn('Writing operations have been completed with errors. Some of the patch files are applied or stored in scripts/patches/, and manual actions have been added to the warning list.');
+     } else {
+       console.log('All writing operations have been completed without errors, patch files are applied or stored in scripts/patches/');
+     }
+     return results.some((status) => status === 0);
+   });
  }
```

That's a lot of changes, let's see them in detail:

- `files.forEach` has become `files.map`: instead of performing instructions at
  each iteration, we rather map our array of filenames to an array of `Promise`
  objects.

> - `Promise` constructor takes a function in argument. The core of this function

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `Promise` constructor takes a function in argument. The core of this function
```

    headers: getRequestHeaders(),
    body: JSON.stringify({
      title: `Catch up latest docs: from ${currentEmberVersion} to ${newEmberVersion}`,
      body: "This is an automatic catch up PR to align our non-translated documentation with the latest official documentation.",
      head: catchupBranch, // === `catchup-${newEmberVersion}`
      base: "master",
      labels: ["Guides FR trad"],
    }),
  });
};
```

Then we can call this function right after the branch is correctly pushed:

```js
try {
  pushChanges();
  try {
    console.log("Attempting to post the catch up PR");
    const prResponse = await openCatchupPR();
    const jsonPrResponse = await prResponse.json();
    console.log("Server responded with:", jsonPrResponse);
  } catch (error) {
    console.warn(`Failed to post the catchup PR. This was caused by: ${error}`);
  }
} catch (error) {
  console.warn("Failed to push the catchup branch.");
}
```

Sounds like our script is ready to work! We learned how to:

- Write `issues` and `pulls` requests for GitHub API
- Send requests with `fetch` and handle the response
- Manage nested asynchronous operations with `Promise` and `Promise.all`

### 5. Last words

> In the big lines, this is it!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is it!
```

I don't think "in the big lines" exists as an expression in English...

There are still a couple of details we can add to improve the script. For
instance, reworking the logs to have a clear list of "required actions" the
developer has to do manually if something goes wrong, and that is visually

> separated from the rest of the logs. We could also switch back to `master` or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
separated from the rest of the logs. We could also switch back to the `master` or
```

`catchup` branch after resetting `ref-upstream`, depending on the required

> actions. In terms of clean-up, we could also remove `scripts/patches` folder and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
actions. In terms of clean-up, we could also remove the `scripts/patches` folder and
```

all its content once all the GitHub issues have been posted.

On a different matter, we could also write some tests to make sure the script

> does what we think it does. In case you wonder, such tests don't exist when I am

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
does what we think it does. In case you wonder, such tests don't exist yet as I am
```

writing these lines. To test the render of the issues and what the catch-up PR

> looks like, I did what I usually do: manual process first, then automation will

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
looks like, I did what I usually do: manual process first, then switch to the automation
```

> come when I am clear with what I want. I created a sandbox project that contains

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion 
when I am clear with what I want. I created a sandbox project that contains
```

only a `guides/release/` folder with a couple of fake markdown files, then I
forked it and added the `catchup.mjs` to the fork along with npm package manager
to import the few dependencies the script needs. By committing to the upstream
sandbox, I could test many cases, including some that never occurred in the real
guides so far, like the deletion of markdown files.

> You can see the final version of the script in `ember-fr-guides-source`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can see the final version of the script in the `ember-fr-guides-source`
```

repository, it's
[right there](https://github.com/DazzlingFugu/ember-fr-guides-source/blob/master/scripts/catchup.mjs).

> As said at the beginning of this article, none of this answers the question how

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As said at the beginning of this article, none of this answers the question "how
```

> to bootstrap a translation project, what's the best approach to use? But all the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to bootstrap a translation project, what's the best approach to use?". However, all the
```

above may have convinced you that maintenance automation is not a so big deal.

> And it's an iterative process. I could have started using this script to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And it's an iterative process, too. I could have started using this script to
```

automate the git commands before it was able to do the API requests. Even now

> it's complete, there are certainly improvements to make, but it doesn't prevent

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that it's complete, there are certainly improvements to make, but it doesn't prevent
```
